                    ISOMETRIC FONTS, VOLUME 8
                    Helv Light & Black
                    Rubicon Computer Labs
                    Shareware Edition

SHAREWARE MEANS FREE TRIAL. PLEASE REGISTER.

This package is distributed as shareware, and contains 1 font from our
Helv Light & Black family. You may examine and test it, free of charge.
Other use requires payment of a registration fee. The software is fully
functional, and not crippled in any way. Please register your share-
ware or pass it along for someone else to try. Payment is on the honour
system, but registered users receive the following fonts: 

Helv   Light, LightOlique, Extrabold, ExtraboldOblique

TO ORDER: print this page, fill in the order form, attach payment, and
mail it in. Registration fee is $6 U.S. or equivalent in hard currency
(e.g. West European, Japanese, Australian, etc.).

   Rubicon Computer Labs
   Box 336
   Chelsea, Quebec
   Canada  J0X 1N0

[ ] Cheque  (U.S. or Canadian bank)
[ ] Money Order or Bank Draft
[ ] Cash

[ ] Truetype or [ ] Postscript

[ ] PC or [ ] MAC

[ ] Send by Mail [ ] by Compuserve [ ] by AOL [ ] by Internet

    Name             ________________________________________
    Address          ________________________________________
    Address          ________________________________________
    City, State, Zip ________________________________________
    Country          ________________________________________

    Compuserve __________ AOL __________ Internet __________


Questions, Purchase Orders, Site Licences, OEM Licences, Custom Fonts

Inquire via Compuserve 71307,1212 or Internet "software@rubicon.ca"
or America Online "LeeJBell".


DESCRIPTION OF CONTENTS

The Helv font family is Rubicon's implementation of the Helvetica
design. It is an isometric font clone of the original.

Rubicon's isometric font clones are digitised on a 2000x2000 pixel grid.
They are isometric to their namesakes, meaning that the Postscript font
metrics are the same. This includes character widths, baselines, side
bearings, bounding boxes, and kerning pairs. MacIntosh versions include
10 & 12 point hand-tuned screen fonts.

FONT INSTALLATION PROCEDURES

Rubicon's Isometric Fonts are provided in Postscript and Truetype
versions, in PC or MAC format. Installation instructions are given
below for the following operating systems:

   Windows 3.1 & Truetype
   Windows 3.x & Postscript
   Windows 95 & Truetype
   Windows 95 & Postscript
   Windows NT & Truetype
   MS-DOS & Truetype
   MS-DOS & Postscript
   OS/2 & Postscript
   MAC System 7 & Truetype
   MAC System 7 & Postscript
   MAC System 6 & Truetype
   MAC System 6 & Postscript

PC versions can also be used with certain other computer platforms or
operating systems, and in certain printing devices which accept
downloadable fonts directly.

The Isometric Fonts software is distributed in either uncompressed
format (ready to use) or in a compressed archive format, e.g. ZIP for
PC's or a Stuffit archive for MAC's. Compressed font archives must be
expanded before installation (this has probably been done already, to
permit the user to read this file). The font installation software will
need the location of the new (uninstalled fonts), i.e. the names of the
disk drive and directory path (folder) where the new fonts are stored.

The new font files should be placed either on a floppy diskette,
or in a temporary directory (folder) on a hard disk. These files are
not needed after installation, but a backup copy should be retained.
During installation, the font software is copied onto hard disk, in the
appropriate location.

WINDOWS 3.1 & TRUETYPE

To install Truetype fonts into Microsoft Windows 3.1, first note the
location where the new (uninstalled) fonts are stored. The name of the
disk drive is needed and the directory path, if any. From inside Windows

   Switch to the program group "Main"
   Open the icon "Control Panel"
   Open the icon "Fonts" (not "Printers")
   Select the "Add" button
   The dialogue box "Add Fonts" will appear
   Specify the location of the new fonts as follows:
      Choose the disk drive letter from the "Drives" menu
      (Disk drives are denoted a: b: c: etc.)
      Choose the directory path, if any, from the "Directories" menu
   The "List of Fonts" menu should display the new font names
      Choose "Select All" to install all the new fonts
      Or, select fonts individually from the "List of Fonts" menu
      (Hold down the shift key to select more than one font)
   Mark the option box "Copy fonts to Windows directory"
   Choose "OK", then wait while Windows installs the selected fonts
   Close the "Fonts" window to return to the Windows "Control Panel"
   End

In case of difficulty, consult the MS-Windows User's Guide, under
"Truetype fonts, adding". 

WINDOWS 3.x & POSTSCRIPT

Adobe Type Manager (ATM) for Windows is an alternative to the Truetype
font rasterizer that is provided with Microsoft Windows 3.1. Older
versions of ATM also work with Windows 3.0. ATM uses Postscript Type1
fonts rather than Truetype fonts. The installation procedure for ATM 2.0
and Windows 3.1 is as follows. Other versions of ATM and/or Windows
operate similarly. 

First, note the location where the new (uninstalled) fonts are stored.
The name of the disk drive is needed and the directory path, if any.
From inside Windows

   Close any programs that are in use
   Switch to the program group "Main"
   Open the icon "ATM Control Panel"
   Select the "Add" button
      The dialogue box "Add ATM Fonts" will appear
   Specify the location of the new fonts as follows:
      Choose the disk drive letter from the "Directories" menu
      (Disk drives are denoted [-a-] [-b-] [-c-] etc.)
      Choose the directory path, if any, from the "Directories" menu
   The "Available Fonts" menu should display the new font names
      Select fonts individually from this menu
      (Hold down the shift key to select more than one font)
   Set the "Target directory for Postscript fonts"
      the default should be OK, normally "c:\psfonts"
   Set the "Target directory for font metrics files"
      the default should be OK, normally "c:\psfonts\pfm"
   Select the "Add" button
   Wait while ATM installs the selected fonts
   Exit the ATM Control Panel
   Choose the option to "Restart Windows", then wait
   End

In case of difficulty, consult the ATM User Guide, under "Adding and
removing fonts".

WINDOWS 95 & TRUETYPE

The Windows 95 Truetype font installation procedure is almost identical
to that of Windows 3.1. To install Truetype fonts into Microsoft Windows
95, first note the location where the new (uninstalled) fonts are
stored. The name of the disk drive is needed and the folder (directory),
if any. From inside Windows 95

   Switch to the program group "Main"
   Open the icon "Control Panel"
   Open the icon "Fonts"
   From the "File" menu, choose "Install New Font"
      The dialogue box "Add Fonts" should appear
   Specify the location of the new fonts as follows:
      Choose the disk drive letter from the "Drives" menu
      (Disk drives are denoted a: b: c: etc.)
      Choose the folder, if any, from the "Folders" menu
   The "List of Fonts" menu should display the new font names
      Choose "Select All" to install all the new fonts
      Or, select fonts individually from the "List of Fonts" menu
      (Hold down the shift key to select more than one font.)
   Mark the option box "Copy fonts to Fonts folder"
   Choose "OK", then wait while Windows installs the selected fonts
   Close the "Fonts" window to return to the Windows "Control Panel"
   Close the "Control Panel" window to return to Windows 95
   End

In case of difficulty, consult the MS-Windows 95 documentation.

WINDOWS 95 & POSTSCRIPT

Adobe Type Manager (ATM) for Windows 95 is an alternative to the
Truetype font rasterizer that is provided with Microsoft Windows 95. ATM
uses Postscript Type1 fonts rather than Truetype fonts. Installation
should be similar to Windows 3.1 (see above), or consult the ATM for
Windows 95 documentation. 

WINDOWS NT & TRUETYPE

For installation of Truetype fonts, consult the MS-Windows NT documen-
tation. If and when Adobe Type Manager (ATM) is available for Windows
NT, consult the ATM documentation for installation of Postscript fonts.

MS-DOS & TRUETYPE

MS-DOS does not support Truetype fonts directly. Those MS-DOS
applications with Truetype font support each have their own unique
installation procedures. Consult the corresponding User Guides.

Example: Word Perfect 6.0.

MS-DOS & POSTSCRIPT

MS-DOS does not support Postscript fonts directly. Those MS-DOS
applications with Postscript font support each have their own unique
installation procedures. Consult the corresponding User Guides.

Examples: Adobe Font Foundry, Word Perfect 6.0, Ventura Publisher.

OS/2 & POSTSCRIPT

OS/2 provides direct support for Postscript fonts. Note that many users
run Windows 3.1 on top of OS/2. Windows programs require that the fonts
be installed into Windows (as above). Either Truetype or Postscript
fonts can be used. 

To install Postscript fonts into OS/2, first note the location where the
new (uninstalled) fonts are stored. The drive letter is needed and the
directory path, if any. Typical examples would be "A:\" or "C:\TEMP".

From the OS/2 System icon view, use the mouse to:

   double click the "System Setup" icon
   double click the "Font Palette" icon
   single click the "Edit Font" button
   single click the "Add" button
   set the drive/directory of the new fonts
      e.g. "A:\" or "C:\TEMP"
   single click the "Add" button
      a list of filenames will appear under "Font Files"
   to select fonts for installation, click one or more filenames
      the corresponding font names will appear
   click again to deselect unwanted fonts
   single-click the "Add" button to install selected fonts
   close the "Edit Font" window
   close the "Font Palette" window
   end

MAC SYSTEM 7 & TRUETYPE

To install Truetype fonts into MacIntosh System 7 (or newer), locate and
identify the Truetype font files, indicated by a suitcase icon with a
filename ending in "TT", then drag them into the System folder. System 7
will respond, asking for permission to move the font files into the
System Font sub-folder. Select the "OK" button. The new fonts will not
be available to currently running applications until they have been quit
and re-launched. 

MAC SYSTEM 7 & POSTSCRIPT

Adobe Type Manager (ATM) for MacIntosh is an alternative to the Truetype
font rasterizer that is provided with System 7. Older versions of ATM
also work with System 6. ATM uses Postscript Type1 fonts rather than
Truetype fonts.

To install Postscript fonts for use with ATM, locate and identify
the screen font files (indicated by a suitcase icon with a filename
ending in "screen") and the Postscript Type 1 files (icon shows a
printer and the numeral "1"). Drag these files into the System folder.
The operating system (Finder) will respond, asking for permission to
move the font files into the System Font sub-folder. Select the "OK"
button. The new fonts will not be available to currently running
applications until they have been quit and re-launched. 

MAC SYSTEM 6 & TRUETYPE

Truetype fonts can be used with later versions of System 6. The follow-
ing software is required: System 6.0.6 or newer, the Truetype INIT, and
the Font D/A Mover 4.1 or newer. These were formerly available free of
charge from Apple. 

Using Font D/A Mover, install the entire contents of the Truetype font
suitcases. These contain 1 or more Truetype font outlines, and optional-
ly may contain 1 or more hand-tuned screen fonts.

MAC SYSTEM 6 & POSTSCRIPT

Adobe Type Manager (ATM) for MacIntosh is an alternative to the Truetype
font rasterizer. Older versions of ATM will work with System 6. ATM uses
Postscript Type1 fonts rather than Truetype fonts. The Font D/A Mover is
required. This was formerly available free of charge from Apple.

To install Postscript fonts for use with ATM, first locate and identify
the screen font files (indicated by a suitcase icon with a filename
ending in "screen") and the Postscript Type 1 files (icon shows a
printer and the numeral "1").

Using Font D/A Mover, install the contents of the screen font suit-
case(s). Then, drag the Type1 font file(s) into the System Folder. The
new fonts will not be available to currently running applications until
they have been quit and re-launched.

SHAREWARE LICENCE

Rubicon Computer Labs hereby grants to the User a non-exclusive licence
to use the software known as "Isometric Fonts, Volume 8, Shareware
Edition", hereinafter referred to as "the Shareware", subject to the
following terms and conditions. 

1. The User may use the Shareware only for the purposes of testing,
demonstration, or review. Use of the Shareware for any other purpose is
contrary to law, until the prescribed user's licence fee is remitted to
Rubicon Computer Labs or an authorized dealer.

2. The User may make additional copies of the Shareware for transfer to
others for purposes of demonstration, testing, and review. These copies
must be complete, with nothing added or omitted. The User may not charge
any fee for providing copies of the Shareware.

3. The Shareware is licensed to the User without warranty of any kind,
express or implied, except as to title, and all such other warranties,
including those otherwise implied by statute or commom law, are hereby
expressly disclaimed.

4. Except as and to the extent expressly stipulated herein, neither
Rubicon Computer Labs nor any succcessor to or affiliate of Rubicon
Computer Labs, nor any officer, employee, agent or representative of
either, shall be liable for any loss, damage, claim, liability or
expense, of any kind or nature whatsoever, arising out of or in
connection with the acquisition, installation or use, or attempted
installation or use, of the Shareware, including, without restricting
the generality of the foregoing, any loss or damage, direct or
consequential, caused in whole or in part by any real or alleged
failure of or defect in the Shareware.

5. Acceptance, installation and/or use of the Shareware by the User
constitutes acceptance of the terms and conditions of this licence. 

SHAREWARE DISTRIBUTION

Persons or organizations wishing to distribute shareware copies of this
package for a fee must comply with the terms and conditions found in
either of the accompanying files "VENDOR.DOC" (a plain text file) or
"VENDEDIT.DIZ" (which contains this information in machine readable
format).

ASSOCIATION OF SHAREWARE PROFESSIONALS

This program is produced by a member of the Association of Shareware
Professionals (ASP). ASP wants to make sure that the shareware principle
works for you. If you are unable to resolve a shareware related problem
with an ASP member by contacting the member directly, ASP may be able to
help. The ASP Ombudsman can help you resolve a dispute or problem with
an ASP member, but does not provide technical support for members'
products. Please write to the ASP Ombudsman at 545 Grover Road,
Muskegon, MI 49442-9427 USA, FAX 616-788-2765 or send a CompuServe 
message via CompuServe Mail to ASP Ombudsman 70007,3536.

COPYRIGHT & TRADEMARK

Isometric Fonts #8, including software and documentation, is copyright
<C> Rubicon Computer Labs, 1995-96. All rights reserved.

Isometric Fonts (TM) is a trademark of Rubicon Computer Labs.
